README.md, before:

## Daily Code Challenges

Solutions to problems sent by dailycodingproblem.com

---

Solutions available in <br> 

### Python & Javascript


---

#### Problem 1

Given a list of numbers, return whether any two sums to k.
For example, given [10, 15, 3, 7] and k of 17, return true since 10 + 7 is 17.

Bonus: Can you do this in one pass?

[Solution: python](python/001.py)

---

#### Problem 2

This problem was asked by Uber.

Given an array of integers, return a new array such that each element at index i of the new array is the product of all the numbers in the original array except the one at i.

For example, if our input was [1, 2, 3, 4, 5], the expected output would be [120, 60, 40, 30, 24]. If our input was [3, 2, 1], the expected output would be [2, 3, 6].

Follow-up: what if you can't use division?

[Solution: python](python/002.py)

---

#### Problem 3

There exists a staircase with N steps, and you can climb up either 1 or 2 steps at a time.

Given N, write a function that returns the number of unique ways you can climb the staircase.
The order of the steps matters.

For example, if N is 4, then there are 5 unique ways:

- 1, 1, 1, 1
- 2, 1, 1
- 1, 2, 1
- 1, 1, 2
- 2, 2


What if, instead of being able to climb 1 or 2 steps at a time, you could climb any number from a set of positive integers X? For example, if X = {1, 3, 5}, you could climb 1, 3, or 5 steps at a time.

[Solution: python](python/003.py)
[PartialSolution: JS](JS/003.js)

---

#### Problem 4

The question we'll work through is the following: return a new sorted merged list from K sorted lists, each with size N. <br>
Before we move on any further, you should take some time to think about the solution!

+ For example, if we had [[10, 15, 30], [12, 15, 20], [17, 20, 32]], the result should be [10, 12, 15, 15, 17, 20, 20, 30, 32].

[Solution: python](python/004.py)

---

#### Problem 5

Good morning! Here's your coding interview problem for today.

This problem was asked by Google.

Given the root to a binary tree, implement serialize(root), which serializes the tree into a string, and deserialize(s), which deserializes the string back into the tree.

For example, given the following Node class

```python
class Node:
    def __init__(self, val, left=None, right=None):
        self.val = val
        self.left = left
        self.right = right
```

The following test should pass:

```python
node = Node('root', Node('left', Node('left.left')), Node('right'))
assert deserialize(serialize(node)).left.left.val == 'left.left'
```

Commit message:

lowest positive value - time and space

README.md, after:

## Daily Code Challenges

Solutions to problems sent by dailycodingproblem.com

---

Solutions available in <br> 

### Python & Javascript


---

#### Problem 1

Given a list of numbers, return whether any two sums to k.
For example, given [10, 15, 3, 7] and k of 17, return true since 10 + 7 is 17.

Bonus: Can you do this in one pass?

[Solution: python](python/001.py)

---

#### Problem 2

This problem was asked by Uber.

Given an array of integers, return a new array such that each element at index i of the new array is the product of all the numbers in the original array except the one at i.

For example, if our input was [1, 2, 3, 4, 5], the expected output would be [120, 60, 40, 30, 24]. If our input was [3, 2, 1], the expected output would be [2, 3, 6].

Follow-up: what if you can't use division?

[Solution: python](python/002.py)

---

#### Problem 3

There exists a staircase with N steps, and you can climb up either 1 or 2 steps at a time.

Given N, write a function that returns the number of unique ways you can climb the staircase.
The order of the steps matters.

For example, if N is 4, then there are 5 unique ways:

- 1, 1, 1, 1
- 2, 1, 1
- 1, 2, 1
- 1, 1, 2
- 2, 2


What if, instead of being able to climb 1 or 2 steps at a time, you could climb any number from a set of positive integers X? For example, if X = {1, 3, 5}, you could climb 1, 3, or 5 steps at a time.

[Solution: python](python/003.py)\
[PartialSolution: JS](JS/003.js)

---

#### Problem 4

The question we'll work through is the following: return a new sorted merged list from K sorted lists, each with size N. <br>
Before we move on any further, you should take some time to think about the solution!

+ For example, if we had [[10, 15, 30], [12, 15, 20], [17, 20, 32]], the result should be [10, 12, 15, 15, 17, 20, 20, 30, 32].

[Solution: python](python/004.py)

---

#### Problem 5

This problem was asked by Google.

Given the root to a binary tree, implement serialize(root), which serializes the tree into a string, and deserialize(s), which deserializes the string back into the tree.

For example, given the following Node class

```python
class Node:
    def __init__(self, val, left=None, right=None):
        self.val = val
        self.left = left
        self.right = right
```

The following test should pass:

```python
node = Node('root', Node('left', Node('left.left')), Node('right'))
assert deserialize(serialize(node)).left.left.val == 'left.left'
```

---

#### Problem 6


This problem was asked by Stripe.

Given an array of integers, find the first missing positive integer in linear time and constant space.\ 
In other words, find the lowest positive integer that does not exist in the array. \
The array can contain duplicates and negative numbers as well.

For example, the input [3, 4, -1, 1] should give 2. The input [1, 2, 0] should give 3.

You can modify the input array in-place.

[Solution: python](python/006.py)
